today in three the most expeditions
catastrophic
in the 1920s the explorer
English Percy Fawcett undertook his most
ambitious expedition the search for the
zeta city a thousand-year-old population of
immense wealth of whose existence the
explorer was convinced in April of
1925 persie went ahead in the jungle
together with his son an assistant two
you work the Brazilians two horses and
eight mules and a couple of dogs in May
of the same year
the man wrote his wife a letter
that became the last news
that was never taken from the convoy
reopened on fossett and his
companions in the following years
they left 13 expeditions in their search
in which more than 100 died
rescuers the explorers never
They were found
three dogs were trained for
space expedition on board the sputnik
2 an ambitious Soviet project that
I was trying to bring life to orbit
terrestrial the dogs were forced to
spend days inside tiny cages
placed in centrifuges that simulated
the acceleration of a rocket bound to
support machines that generate noise
similar to that of a spacecraft already
shown to consume their food in
health laica was the dog chosen for
be for November 3, 1957
unfortunately lay died seven hours
after having split and winning in the
who was traveling disintegrated five months
after although this bitch did not survive
Her story inspired the debate on the
animal abuse and thanks to it
they banned experiments of this kind
A few years later
on May 10, 1996, Mount Everest
was covered by a storm there
one not one but 17 expeditions the
storm that decreased visibility
of the climbers caused a
reduction in oxygen level
causing delusions confusion and
hypothermia even among climbers
most experienced eight people
they died making this the most
catastrophic in the history of
mountaineering that was all for today in top 3
discover more useless data in our
next episode
to see more videos as is in